feat: Add SPEC 8 - Securing the Release Process (#325)
scientific-python/specs: spec-0008/index.md

> # SPEC-8: Securing the Release Process
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This needs to go away to render correctly as a table at the beginning of the document and in the website I think. At least that's how it's formatted in other SPECS.

This SPEC outlines pragmatic recommendations for adopting these security tools and recommendations on how to publish release artifacts securely.
Securely _building_ release artifacts will be covered in a later SPEC. This set of recommendations complements the recommendations from [SPEC 6 — Keys to the Castle](https://github.com/scientific-python/specs/blob/main/spec-0006/index.md).

While this SPEC is written with GitHub in mind, the same recommendations apply to other services, such as GitLab.

## Implementation

With a focus on securing the release artifact distribution process, the following processes and standards should be adopted.

### Document the release process

The release process should be clearly and fully documented in the developer documentation and describe each step to make a release and the permissions required to do so.
It is recommended that this is a dedicated page in the developer section of the documentation website, though providing instructions in a `RELEASING.md` in the top level of the repository is also a common approach.

### Hardening workflow environment permissions

> * Workflows that publish release artifacts should have _run triggers_ that require intentional actions by the release team (e.g., `workflow_dispatch` in GitHub Actions) and require multiple the release team members to approve the workflow to run (c.f. "Use GitHub Actions environments" section below).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Workflows that publish release artifacts should have _run triggers_ that require intentional actions by the release team (e.g., `workflow_dispatch` in GitHub Actions) and require multiple release team members to approve the workflow to run (c.f. "Use GitHub Actions environments" section below).
```

# SPEC-8: Securing the Release Process

---

title: "SPEC 8 — Securing the Release Process"
number: 8
date: 2024-06-04
author:

- "Matthew Feickert <matthew.feickert@cern.ch>"
- "Pamphile Roy <roy.pamphile@gmail.com>"
- "Juanita Gomez <juanitagomezr2112@gmail.com>"
- "Seth Larson <sethmichaellarson@gmail.com>"
- "Lars Grüter <lagru@mailbox.org>"
  discussion: https://discuss.scientific-python.org/t/spec-8-supply-chain-security
  endorsed-by:

---

## Description

<!--
Briefly and clearly describe the recommendation.
https://github.com/scientific-python/summit-2024/issues/9
-->

> Securing the Open Source supply chain (OSSC) is becoming a more relevant concern in recent years, with examples of sophisticated attacks against the ecosystem (e.g., the 2024 [`xz` utils backdoor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XZ_Utils_backdoor)) and [malware attacks on PyPI](https://blog.pypi.org/posts/2024-04-10-domain-abuse/) highlighting the need for supply chain security to be taken seriously.

Reviewer 3: Maybe say why it is a more relevant concern?

Something along the lines of: Open source libraries are now commonplace in many research and industry software stacks. Securing the OSSC is therefore an increasing concern, with examples of ...

The Python Software Foundation (PSF) is also taking the importance of the OSSC seriously, as demonstrated by the [creation of the PSF Security Developer in Residence position in 2023](https://pyfound.blogspot.com/2023/06/announcing-our-new-security-developer.html).

> With the creation of the [Supply-chain Levels for Software Artifacts (SLSA) framework](https://slsa.dev/) and [OpenID Connect (OIDC)](https://openid.net/developers/how-connect-works/) standard being more widely adopted there are now high level developer tools, maintained by professional security teams, that are available with clear recommendations on how to use them.

Reviewer 3: This sentence doesn't quite parse.

Maybe something like:

With the SLSA framework and the UIDC standard being widely adopted, several tools have been created to make their adoption easier. These tools are maintained by professional security teams, and come with clear instructions.

> This SPEC outlines the requirements for practically adopting these security tools and recommendations with a focus on securely publishing release artifacts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This SPEC outlines pragmatic recommendations for adopting these security tools, and recommendations on how to publish release artifacts securely.
```

> Securely building release artifacts will be covered in a later SPEC. This set of recommendations complements the recommendations from [SPEC 6 — Keys to the Castle](https://github.com/scientific-python/specs/blob/main/spec-0006/index.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Securely *building* release artifacts will be covered in a later SPEC. This set of recommendations complements the recommendations from [SPEC 6 — Keys to the Castle](https://github.com/scientific-python/specs/blob/main/spec-0006/index.md).
```

Reviewer 3: We should also add a cross-link from SPEC6 here, once it goes in.

> This SPEC is written with GitHub in mind, note these recommendations still apply with other services such as GitLab and we refer project to these services' documentations and guidelines.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While this SPEC is written with GitHub in mind, the same recommendations apply to other services, such as GitLab.
```

## Implementation

With a focus on securing the release artifact distribution process, the following processes and standards should be adopted.

### Document the release process

> The release process should be clearly and fully documented in the developer documentation and describe each step to make a release and the permissions required to do so.

Reviewer 4: Maybe give a few example steps, important steps that should be documented. To give people an idea of what steps are involved and at what level of detail they should describe it.

In particular when I compare this section (where people have to do something) to the intro section it feels like a lot of words are spent on the intro and too few on describing what to do.

Reviewer 5: The most important thing is that it is fully described somewhere and does not leave anything out. i.e. anyone with the correct permissions (depends on the tasks you have to do) should just have to strictly follow the step-by-step and arrive to a release. If there is anything not described, the document is incomplete. I am not sure what to add here besides being more strict in the wording as I am now.

Reviewer 4: Maybe give a few links to existing ones that people can take inspiration from.

Reviewer 5: Maybe @matthewfeickert you have one?

I don't know of a good example to be honest and since I am not a release manager (of a large project), I cannot even improve one as I would not know what this person does for the project.

Reviewer 6: One suggestion is to document the release process in a `RELEASING.md`, this is a fairly popular way: 

* https://github.com/search?q=path%3ARELEASING.md&type=code

Here's some examples from projects I'm involved in:

* https://github.com/python-pillow/Pillow/blob/main/RELEASING.md
* https://github.com/hugovk/norwegianblue/blob/main/RELEASING.md
* https://github.com/python/cherry-picker/blob/main/RELEASING.md
* https://github.com/jazzband/tablib/blob/master/RELEASING.md

I find it useful to have a known file to look for when I'm making a release.

Reviewer 6: My suggestion is about the _existence_ of a file like `RELEASING.md` in the repo to document the release process, not to suggest the _contents_.

The links are some examples, and they're quite different from each other. I don't suggest any of the actual contents of those links here. It's up to each project to document whatever their own release process is, which will vary based on their own setup, requirements, and levels of automation etc.

By writing down the steps, it makes it easier for the next maintainer to make a release, and identify new parts which can be automated, and helps enable iterative improvement (this [sort](https://www.transposit.com/devops-blog/devops/2020.04.02-documentation-as-a-path-to-devops-automation/) of stuff).

Anyway, feel free to disregard this suggestion :)

Author: Thanks for pointing that out @hugovk and also sorry for not reading carefully enough before &mdash; not enough sleep this week it seems. Your comments make sense to me. I've noted that `RELEASING.md` is a common approach in the latest commit.

### Hardening workflow environment permissions

> Workflows that publish release artifacts should have _run triggers_ that require intentional actions by maintainers (e.g., `on workflow_dispatch` in GitHub Actions) and require multiple maintainers to approve the workflow to run (c.f. "Use GitHub Actions environments" section below).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Workflows that publish release artifacts should have _run triggers_ that require intentional actions by maintainers (e.g., `workflow_dispatch` in GitHub Actions) and require multiple maintainers to approve the workflow to run (c.f. "Use GitHub Actions environments" section below).
```

or maybe make it valid yaml so people can copy and paste it? Are there alternatives to `workflow_dispatch` because if not we could just say "use `workflow_dispatch`."

> This is to safeguard the project from any one maintainer having the ability to commit to the default branch and make a release directly.

Reviewer 3: Confused; wouldn't most projects want the release manager have this ability? Also, instead of using technical jargon, perhaps the principle can be described in more generic terms first. E.g., if you want to highlight that one maintainer should not be able to make a release by themselves, then that sentence can go first.

Reviewer 5: That's the thing, you don't need a release manager (from the artifact's standpoint) if the whole process is automated. What you need is multiple maintainers to approve the release flow to run.

Author: @stefanv (Asking really because I don't know) In your experience is the expectation that a release manager is the only person who should be involved in a release (and that they don't coordinate with the other project maintainers)?

I agree that a release manager is going to be the one clicking the button, but the recommendation is to make sure that multiple maintainers are on the same page that a release should be cut and that it is happening from the correct branch. You could imagine that the release manager is actually the person that is the second approver here.

Reviewer 7: The staging area is useful and nice, but the "any couple of maintainers can push the button" is certainly not universal. Thinking about how that would work for NumPy or SciPy: it'd be both more cumbersome and significantly less secure. We now have 5 people with access to PyPI, and 30-40 people with commit rights, and the bar to gain PyPI access is way higher than that to gain commit rights. 

I think that that's true for a majority of projects. Giving out commit rights to promising new contributors fairly quickly can be good to engage them; having those be the keys to PyPI as well would make the bar to giving out commit rights higher, or the setup less secure. (requiring 2 maintainers to hit the button only helps a little, since it's not hard for a bad actor to start contributing under 2 different github handles).

Reviewer 2: I wasn't even thinking about malicious intent, but maintainers who are just not aware of all the details of the release process and tend to approve stuff to show no disagreement rather than a sign of diligent review, etc. 
And you can add all the dev docs you want, if you want to maintain a more diverse and welcoming group with write access and ultimately a bigger bus factor there will always be people like this in the group.

Author: @rgommers @bsipocz c.f. the docs on this: https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/targeting-different-environments/using-environments-for-deployment#required-reviewers

Specifically 

> Use required reviewers to require a specific person or team to approve workflow jobs that reference the environment. You can list up to six users or teams as reviewers. The reviewers must have at least read access to the repository.

You aren't giving everyone with commit rights publishing access.

Reviewer 5: There seems to be a misconception about GitHub environment and approvals. You can specify exactly who can and cannot run a specific workflow.

Regarding the effort which comes with this process: the SPEC does not aim to describe what projects are currently doing but rather what they should strive for if they are missing some bits. I would still argue that asking for a 4 eyes principle (at least) should not be that of a burden to cut a release. E.g. for SciPy that's once every 6 months and we ask a few people to have a look at things like release notes, etc.

Then it's up to the projects to come up with rules on what to review before clicking the button.

Reviewer 2: Then the wording needs to be updates as it was definitely not clear than a separate, small release group will require to sign-off, you use `maintainers` all over in the docs while you in fact thinking of a much smaller release team.

Reviewer 2: And as someone being a release manager for many years for a large package, I would definitely argue that it is not at all easy to get careful review/sign-off from multiple people even when the release cycle is on the 6 month timescale. 
Checking on the release notes is not at all equals with checking off on everything required for a release, and if that is not required for ticking that box, then I would argue it's not at all a safer process.

Reviewer 5: It's safer as in, now to make a release, we need to compromise 2 people if we want to inject something at the last minute. But sure, if the people you would allow to release would not even bother looking at the last commits... then it won't do much.

I still think that a release should be considered as more critical than a PR, hence require a more careful review.

Reviewer 2: At minimum, I would like to see changing all usage of `maintainers` in this document to be `release team`, as that really throws the discussion off track. As my experience just doesn't overlap on how difficult it is to get a release team together and even just alternating releases within them, let alone requiring multiple of them doing all the checks and work for all the releases. I agree it would be nice, but I don't think it's realistic for any of the projects I know, neither big nor small.

Author: After talking with @bsipocz IRL I've added "release team" as an adjective to member/maintainer to make it clear who we are talking about.

Also there was some confusion about the number of people: To make it explicit, we are saying 1 additional person review (so 2 people total -> "4 eyes").

:+1:

Reviewer 2: Yeap, not using the word maintainer but a much smaller group as the "release team" addresses my main concern. Also 4 vs 2 is now clear, maybe due to having more coffee or having more discussions about it...

> It is also strongly recommended that the repository requires signed commits so that all releases have a verified commit to which they correspond.

Reviewer 4: Add a link to more information on what this is, find out if you are already doing it, how to set it up, etc

Reviewer 5: Is this enough?

```suggestion
It is also strongly recommended that the repository requires [signed commits](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/signing-commits) so that all releases have a verified commit to which they correspond.
```

> It is also strongly recommended that the repository requires [signed commits](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/signing-commits) so that all releases have a verified commit to which they correspond.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is also strongly recommended that the repository requires [signed commits](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/signing-commits) so that each release corresponds to a verified commit.
```

The branch from which the release is made should also be protected.

#### Restrict permissions in CI runners to the minimum required

To restrict the attack surface area of arbitrary code execution in CI runners, the default permissions the runners have should be restricted to the minimum possible (read access). In the GitHub Action workflow, this is accomplished by defining the following workflow global permissions block before any jobs are defined.

```yaml
permissions:

>   content: read

Reviewer 4: I was expecting to read `permissions: read-all` - but that expectation comes from a brief read of the GitHub docs. Is there a short explanation what the difference is between the two? Is it worth pointing out to the reader that "yes, `permissions: read-all` is the GH docs, but this is better because ...`?

Author: Ah, I think I missed this but this or something similar was a recommendation from Seth.

Reviewer: If I understand [the documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-jobs/assigning-permissions-to-jobs) correctly, setting `content: read` is more restrictive than `content: read-all` because in the first case, all other scopes are set to `none` (which I assume means no access).

Reviewer 4: Could be. It is unclear to me what the permission `none` means :-/

>   content: read

Author: ```suggestion
  contents: read
```

Well this is embarrassing. [This should have been `contents`](https://github.com/scikit-hep/pyhf/blob/dff116cd5b3a4527501540a681813ad14d7a55fc/.github/workflows/ci.yml#L18-L19)! :grimacing: 

As @lagru said though, https://docs.github.com/en/rest/authentication/permissions-required-for-github-apps?apiVersion=2022-11-28#repository-permissions-for-contents shows what all the GitHub operations that can touch repository "contents" are and what the required permissions are. The most restrictive is to just have `contents: read` and it is a good way to also ensure that you're not giving permissions to things unnecessarily.

```

Elevating permissions beyond this should be done at the job level by redefining the permissions block in the job.

#### Restrict permitted actions in workflows

> GitHub allows to restrict the actions that workflows can use via repositories settings at `https://github.com/ORG/PROJECT/settings/actions`.

Reviewer: I can't access the link so not sure, but at least for scikit-image it's definitely `ORG/REPO`. Is it possible that the link above refers to the organization settings for the `scikit-learn` org? It seems like you can at least set some of the settings at org-level as well. So we should probably address this to some extent.

> GitHub allows to restrict the actions that workflows can use via repositories settings at `https://github.com/ORG/PROJECT/settings/actions`.

Reviewer: Yeah, just checked, your link above doesn't refer to the PROJECT but the ORG.

> GitHub allows to restrict the actions that workflows can use via repositories settings at `https://github.com/ORG/PROJECT/settings/actions`.

Reviewer 4: Indeed. I thought that the goal was to use the organisation level settings page. So maybe the thing to do is to make it more obvious to the reader which of the two it is :D

> GitHub allows to restrict the actions that workflows can use via repositories settings at `https://github.com/ORG/PROJECT/settings/actions`.

Author: > So maybe the thing to do is to make it more obvious to the reader which of the two it is :D

@betatim We tried to do this with making `ORG` and `PROJECT` instead of `<ORG>` and `<PROJECT>` and that we lead with

> workflows can use via repositories settings

or perhaps it would be even more clear with `$ORG` and `$PROJECT`.

So I'll do that and then if this is visually ugly to people we can revert this.

A reasonable default setup is to:

- allow actions from the repository itself and actions created by GitHub,
- as well as an allow list of actions from third party repositories.

  ```

>   OWNER/REPOSITORY@*

Reviewer 4: Does this example actually implement the "actions from the repo itself and actions created by github"?

Maybe use `ORG/REPOSITORY@*` to stay consistent with before where I think `ORG` was used instead of `OWNER`.

Author: I'm going to remove this for the time being as the "Allow specified actions and reusable workflows" box gives instructions on how to format this below it on the GitHub page, and I'd prefer for GitHub to be responsible for telling people how to use their interface.

  ```

Consult [Managing GitHub Actions permissions for your repository](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/enabling-features-for-your-repository/managing-github-actions-settings-for-a-repository#managing-github-actions-permissions-for-your-repository) for more details.

#### Use GitHub Actions environments

> Use a GitHub Actions environment

Reviewer 4: Maybe add a sentence or two about what GitHub Actions environments are, what they are good for, where to find more information, etc

For the snippet below write a sentence that explains what the snippet is, where it should go, link to GitHub docs on environments

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Use a [GitHub Actions environment](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/targeting-different-environments/using-environments-for-deployment)
```

### Pin GitHub Actions release workflows to their full release commit SHAs

GitHub actions must be pinned using full commit SHA corresponding to the release version being used.
Using versions or small hashes is susceptible to attacks.

```yaml
- uses: actions/some-action@1fe14e04876783b259436247a3898d2fe7d5548f #vX.Y.Z
```

Dependabot can be used to automatically update the hashes.
It is important that this happens as part of a reviewed process.

```yaml!
# .github/dependabot.yml
version: 2
updates:
  # Maintain dependencies for GitHub Actions
  - package-ecosystem: "github-actions"
    directory: "/"
    schedule:
      interval: "monthly"
    groups:
      actions:
        patterns:
          - "*"
```

### Adopt SLSA through use of GitHub Attestations

A component of SLSA is [software attestation](https://slsa.dev/attestation-model) which allows for public validation of software artifacts and provenance.
GitHub provides the [`actions/attest-build-provenance`](https://github.com/actions/attest-build-provenance) GitHub Action which implements SLSA to generate signed build provenance attestations for workflow artifacts.

> Attestations are publishes to the project GitHub under `https://github.com/ORG/PROJECT/attestations/`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Attestations are published to the project GitHub under `https://github.com/ORG/PROJECT/attestations/`.
```

```yaml
- uses: actions/attest-build-provenance@<full action commit SHA> # vX.Y.Z
  with:
    subject-path: "dist/<package name>-*"
```

GitHub has also added the [`gh attestation verify`](https://cli.github.com/manual/gh_attestation_verify) command to the GitHub CLI utility, which verifies the integrity and provenance of an artifact using its associated cryptographically signed attestations.
This can be used by individual users and also in GitHub Actions workflows where the GitHub CLI utility is installed by default.

```yaml

> - name: Verify sdist artifact attestation
>   env:
>     GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
>   run: gh attestation verify dist/<package name>-*.tar.gz --repo ${{ github.repository }}
> 
> - name: Verify wheel artifact attestations
>   env:
>     GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
>   run: gh attestation verify dist/<package name>-*.whl --repo ${{ github.repository }}

Author: ```suggestion
- name: Verify artifact attestation
  env:
    GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
  shell: bash
  run: |
    for artifact in dist/*; do
        echo "# ${artifact}"
        gh attestation verify "${artifact}" --repo ${{ github.repository }}
    done
```

```

### Adopt OIDC through the use of PyPI Trusted Publishers

[Trusted Publishers](https://docs.pypi.org/trusted-publishers/) provide a way to securely establish a short lived authentication token between a project repository and a distribution platform &mdash; such as PyPI.
It replaces the need to use a long lived token to authenticate, reducing the security risks associated with authentication tokens (e.g., tokens being compromised, the need to rotate tokens).

Trusted Publishers can be used in GitHub Actions by using the [`pypa/gh-action-pypi-publish`](https://github.com/pypa/gh-action-pypi-publish) GitHub Action defaults in a GitHub Actions environment.

```yaml
jobs:
  publish:
    name: Publish release to PyPI
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    environment: publish-package
    permissions:
      # IMPORTANT: this permission is mandatory for trusted publishing
      id-token: write
    steps:
      # retrieve your distributions here
      # ...

      - name: Publish distribution to PyPI
        uses: pypa/gh-action-pypi-publish@<full action commit SHA> # vX.Y.Z
        with:
          print-hash: true
```

### Example workflow

> The following is a complete example of workflow which can be used as a starting point:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following is a complete example of a workflow which can be used as a starting point:
```

```yaml
name: publish distributions

on:
  workflow_dispatch:

concurrency:
  group: ${{ github.workflow }}-${{ github.ref }}
  cancel-in-progress: true

permissions:
  contents: read

jobs:
  publish:
    name: Publish Python distribution to PyPI
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      id-token: write
      attestations: write
    environment:
      name: publish-package

    steps:
      # - name: Collect built artifacts
      # ...

      - name: Generate artifact attestation for sdist and wheels
        uses: actions/attest-build-provenance@<full action commit SHA> # vX.Y.Z
        with:
          subject-path: "dist/<package name>-*"

      - name: Verify artifact attestation
        env:
          GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        shell: bash
        run: |
          for artifact in dist/*; do
              echo "# ${artifact}"
              gh attestation verify "${artifact}" --repo ${{ github.repository }}
          done

      - name: Publish distribution to PyPI
        uses: pypa/gh-action-pypi-publish@<full action commit SHA> # vX.Y.Z
        with:
          print-hash: true
```

> ## Notes

Reviewer 3: Perhaps this is out of scope for the SPEC, but how does it look from the *user's* perspective? Can they use the attestation to check anything? Or do they just pip/conda install and hope for the best. Does conda forge follow these practices? Any recommendations we need to make w.r.t. their release process?

Reviewer 5: End users can check the attestations and check the whole flow yes. It would be awesome if there could be an integration in pip checking things like that (like a --secure flag). @sethmlarson do you know if that was ever brought up? 
Slightly out of scope I would say, but definitely should be part of the page we would put on the learn website.

For conda I am not sure. They don't even support (yet) basics like 2FA, so they have a long way ahead still...

Reviewer 5: Though thinking a more about it. It should not be hard to add SLSA to the workflows and the good thing with conda-forge is that releases need a PR. So there is a clear lineage vs pip not enforcing that.

A recommendation could be to start the conda workflow by checking the SLSA attestation (if from pip, otherwise we need to check for signed commits or something else to attest the source authenticity), building for conda, then signing everything with a new SLSA.

Reviewer 5: To verify, here is the post from @sethmlarson. This is the sort of thing that I would like to see directly built into pip. This way we could ask to get some warnings.

Author: > Perhaps this is out of scope for the SPEC, but how does it look from the user's perspective? Can they use the attestation to check anything? Or do they just pip/conda install and hope for the best.

I think this is out of scope to address in the SPEC itself, but it is a good question, @stefanv. I agree with everything @tupui already said but to give some an explicit example (using the `gh` command line too, sorry) if they download the `sdist` or `wheel` they can verify the artifact's attestation:

```console
$ python -m pip download --no-deps scikit-image
Collecting scikit-image
  Downloading scikit_image-0.24.0-cp311-cp311-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.manylinux2014_x86_64.whl.metadata (14 kB)
Downloading scikit_image-0.24.0-cp311-cp311-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.manylinux2014_x86_64.whl (14.9 MB)
   ━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━ 14.9/14.9 MB 720.6 kB/s eta 0:00:00
Saved ./scikit_image-0.24.0-cp311-cp311-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.manylinux2014_x86_64.whl
Successfully downloaded scikit-image
$ gh attestation verify scikit_image-*.whl --repo scikit-image/scikit-image
Loaded digest sha256:fa27b3a0dbad807b966b8db2d78da734cb812ca4787f7fbb143764800ce2fa9c for file://scikit_image-0.24.0-cp311-cp311-manylinux_2_17_x86_64.manylinux2014_x86_64.whl
Loaded 1 attestation from GitHub API
✓ Verification succeeded!

sha256:fa27b3a0dbad807b966b8db2d78da734cb812ca4787f7fbb143764800ce2fa9c was attested by:
REPO                       PREDICATE_TYPE                  WORKFLOW                                                       
scikit-image/scikit-image  https://slsa.dev/provenance/v1  .github/workflows/wheel_tests_and_release.yml@refs/tags/v0.24.0
```

This is obviously not something that is nicely integrated into a security install at the moment, but I also wouldn't expect that yet as that's extra work from the `pip` team and attestations are somewhat new. (Maybe worth a feature request Issue to the `uv` team though. :thinking:)

> Does conda forge follow these practices? Any recommendations we need to make w.r.t. their release process?

@jakirkham has an Issue open on this somewhere (I forget where, but know that I'm tagged in it) but I think there was hesitancy on the part of Conda-forge to use a tool from GitHub and not use Sigstore directly(?). @jakirkham can link us and also give more explicit context on the conda-forge maintainer perspective.

Reviewer 5: @charliermarsh is this something you thought about maybe for uv?

The quick TLDR, adding SLSA verification when installing packages.

Author: I think this is probably hard given that to verify current attestations you need to provide information like the repository that created the attestation. Not sure how to do this programmatically during an install.

>       - name: Verify sdist artifact attestation
>         env:
>           GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
>         run: gh attestation verify dist/<package name>-*.tar.gz --repo ${{ github.repository }}
> 
>       - name: Verify wheel artifact attestations
>         env:
>           GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
>         run: gh attestation verify dist/<package name>-*.whl --repo ${{ github.repository }}

Author: ```suggestion
```

We shouldn't recommend this until file globbing is supported by `gh attestation verify`. c.f. https://github.com/cli/cli/issues/9215

>       - name: Verify sdist artifact attestation
>         env:
>           GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
>         run: gh attestation verify dist/<package name>-*.tar.gz --repo ${{ github.repository }}
> 
>       - name: Verify wheel artifact attestations
>         env:
>           GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
>         run: gh attestation verify dist/<package name>-*.whl --repo ${{ github.repository }}

Author: ```suggestion        
      - name: Verify artifact attestation
        env:
          GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        shell: bash
        run: |
          for artifact in dist/*; do
              echo "# ${artifact}"
              gh attestation verify "${artifact}" --repo ${{ github.repository }}
          done
```

This allows verification for all artifact in a loop (`xargs` might be more reasonable, but don't work with the current `gh attestation verify` implementation.

This SPEC outlines pragmatic recommendations for adopting these security tools, and recommendations on how to publish release artifacts securely.
Securely *building* release artifacts will be covered in a later SPEC. This set of recommendations complements the recommendations from [SPEC 6 — Keys to the Castle](https://github.com/scientific-python/specs/blob/main/spec-0006/index.md).

While this SPEC is written with GitHub in mind, the same recommendations apply to other services, such as GitLab.

## Implementation

With a focus on securing the release artifact distribution process, the following processes and standards should be adopted.

### Document the release process

The release process should be clearly and fully documented in the developer documentation and describe each step to make a release and the permissions required to do so.
It is recommended that this is a dedicated page in the developer section of the documentation website, though providing instructions in a `RELEASING.md` in the top level of the repository is also a common approach.

> ### Hardening workflow environment permissions

Author: @bsipocz Sorry, but just so I make sure I understand which are the recommendations you want bulleted? We already have things as subsections with `###` headers, but maybe you mean something else? Could you either point specifically to which lines or make a suggested change?

> ### Hardening workflow environment permissions

Reviewer 2: The document has not been rendered just yet, so it's a bit difficult to judge how it will look like, but as I was reading this serially, and was commenting on it as such, I felt that in this `###` section there are 4 unrelated things listed, so would have found having `*` listed them useful.

```yaml
permissions:
  contents: read
```

Elevating permissions beyond this should be done at the job level by redefining the permissions block in the job.

#### Restrict permitted actions in workflows

GitHub allows restricting the actions that workflows can use via the repository actions permissions settings at `https://github.com/$ORG/$PROJECT/settings/actions`.
A reasonable default is to select

> Allow $ORG, and select non-$ORG, actions and reusable workflows

and the suboptions:

* Allow actions created by GitHub
* Allow specified actions and reusable workflows

Consult [Managing GitHub Actions permissions for your repository](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/enabling-features-for-your-repository/managing-github-actions-settings-for-a-repository#managing-github-actions-permissions-for-your-repository) for more details.

#### Use GitHub Actions environments

Use a [GitHub Actions environment](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/targeting-different-environments/using-environments-for-deployment)

```yaml
environment:
  name: publish-package
```

> and enforce additional review by at least one other maintainer to run a GitHub Actions workflow that publishes to PyPI.

Author: It is mentioned above, yes, but we are intentionally doing so (above we said

> (c.f. "Use GitHub Actions environments" section below)

)

so that we get the idea forward and then expand on it here.
